HAPTER ONETHE BOY WHO LIVEDMr. And Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They were the last people you'd expect to be involved in anything strange ormysterious, because they just didn't hold with such nonsense. Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which made drills. He was a big, beefy man withhardly any neck, although he did have a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blonde and hadnearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craningover garden fences, spying on the neighbors. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and in theiropinion there was no finer boy anywhere. The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a secret, and their greatest fear was thatsomebody would discover it. They didn't think they could bear it if anyone found out about the Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley's sister, but they hadn't met for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretendedshe didn't have a sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as itwas possible to be. The Dursleys shuddered to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived inthe street. The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but they had never even seen him. Thisboy was another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn't want Dudley
mixing with a child likethat. When Mr. And Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing aboutthe cloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over thecountry. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work, and Mrs. Dursley gossipedaway happily as she wrestled a screaming Dudley into his high chair. None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window. At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked Mrs. Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kissDudley good-bye but missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing his cereal at thewalls. "Little tyke, " chortled Mr. Dursley as he left the house. He got into his car and backed out of numberfour's drive. It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign of something peculiar -- a cat reading amap. For a second, Mr. Dursley didn't realize what he had seen -- then he jerked his head around to lookagain. There was a tabby cat standing on the corner of Privet Drive, but there wasn't a map in sight. Whatcould he have been thinking of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr. Dursley blinked and stared at thecat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in hismirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive -- no, looking at the sign; cats couldn't read mapsor signs. Mr.
Dursley gave himself a little shake and put the cat out of his mind. As he drove toward townhe thought of nothing except a large order of drills he was hoping to get that day. But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by something else. As he sat in the usualmorning traffic jam, he couldn't help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed peopleabout. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn't bear people who dressed in funny clothes -- the getups yousaw on young people! He supposed this was some stupid new fashion. He drummed his fingers on thesteering wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by. They were whispering2excitedly together. Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a couple of them weren't young at all; why, thatman had to be older than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The nerve of him! But then itstruck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some silly stunt -- these people were obviously collecting forsomething... Yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr. Dursley arrived in theGrunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills. Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office on the ninth floor. If he hadn't, he mighthave found it harder to concentrate on drills that morning. He didn't see the owls swoop ing past in broaddaylight, though people down in the street did; they pointed and gazed openmouthed as owl after
owlsped overhead. Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had aperfectly normal, owl-free morning. He yelled at five different people. He made several importanttelephone calls and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime, when he thoughthe'd stretch his legs and walk across the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery. He'd forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a group of them next to the baker's. He eyedthem angrily as he passed. He didn't know why, but they made him uneasy. This bunch were whisperingexcitedly, too, and he couldn't see a single collecting tin. It was on his way back past them, clutching a largedoughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they were saying. "The Potters, that's right, that's what I heard yes, their son, Harry"Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked back at the whisperers as if he wanted to saysomething to them, but thought better of it. He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his office, snapped at his secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had almost finished dialing his home number when he changed his mind. He putthe receiver back down and stroked his mustache, thinking... No, he was being stupid. Potter wasn't suchan unusual name. He was sure there were lots of people called Potter who had a son called Harry. Come tothink of it, he wasn't even sure his nephew was called Harry.